 From the perspective of the Earth , this crater lies along the southern limb of the Moon , making observation difficult . Detailed mapping of the polar regions and <unk> of the Moon did not occur until the advent of orbiting spacecraft . Shackleton lies entirely within the rim of the immense South Pole @-@ Aitken basin , which is one of the largest known impact formations in the Solar System . This basin is over 12 kilometers deep , and an exploration of its properties could provide useful information about the lunar interior .
 A neutron spectrometer on board the Lunar Prospector spacecraft detected enhanced concentrations of hydrogen close to the northern and southern lunar poles , including the crater Shackleton . At the end of this mission in July 1999 , the spacecraft was crashed into the nearby crater Shoemaker in the hope of detecting from Earth @-@ based telescopes an impact @-@ generated plume containing water vapor . The impact event did not produce any detectable water vapor , and this may be an indication that the hydrogen is not in the form of hydrated minerals , or that the impact site did not contain any ice . Alternatively , it is possible that the crash did not excavate deeply enough into the regolith to liberate significant quantities of water vapor .
 From Earth @-@ based radar and spacecraft images of the crater edge , Shackleton appears to be relatively intact ; much like a young crater that has not been significantly eroded from subsequent impacts . This may mean that the inner sides are relatively steep , which may make traversing the sides relatively difficult for a robotic vehicle . In addition , it is possible that the interior floor might not have collected a significant quantity of volatiles since its formation . However other craters in the vicinity are considerably older , and may contain significant deposits of hydrogen , possibly in the form of water ice . ( See Shoemaker ( lunar crater ) , for example . )
 Radar studies preceding and following the Lunar Prospector mission demonstrate that the inner walls of Shackleton are similar in reflective characteristics to those of some sunlit craters . In particular , the surroundings appear to contain a significant number of blocks in its ejecta blanket , suggesting that its radar properties are a result of surface roughness , and not ice deposits , as was previously suggested from a radar experiment involving the Clementine mission . This interpretation , however , is not universally agreed upon within the scientific community . Radar images of the crater at a wavelength of 13 cm show no evidence for water ice deposits .
 Optical imaging inside the crater was done for the first time by the Japanese lunar orbiter spacecraft Kaguya in 2007 . It did not have any evidence of significant amount of water ice , down to the image resolution of 10 m per pixel .
 On November 15 , 2008 , a 34 @-@ kg probe made a hard landing near the crater . The moon impact probe ( <unk> ) was launched from the Indian Chandrayaan @-@ I spacecraft and reached the surface 25 minutes later . The probe carried a radar altimeter , video imaging system , and a mass spectrometer , which will be used to search for water .
