 Mendes called American Beauty a rite of passage film about imprisonment and escape from imprisonment . The monotony of Lester 's existence is established through his gray , nondescript workplace and characterless clothing . In these scenes , he is often framed as if trapped , " reiterating rituals that hardly please him " . He masturbates in the confines of his shower ; the shower stall evokes a jail cell and the shot is the first of many where Lester is confined behind bars or within frames , such as when he is reflected behind columns of numbers on a computer monitor , " confined [ and ] nearly crossed out " . The academic and author Jody W. Pennington argues that Lester 's journey is the story 's center . His sexual reawakening through meeting Angela is the first of several turning points as he begins to " [ throw ] off the responsibilities of the comfortable life he has come to despise " . After Lester shares a joint with Ricky , his spirit is released and he begins to rebel against Carolyn . Changed by Ricky 's " attractive , profound confidence " , Lester is convinced that Angela is attainable and sees that he must question his " banal , numbingly materialist suburban existence " ; he takes a job at a fast @-@ food outlet , which allows him to regress to a point when he could " see his whole life ahead of him " .
 When Lester is caught masturbating by Carolyn , his angry retort about their lack of intimacy is the first time he says aloud what he thinks about her . By confronting the issue and Carolyn 's " superficial investments in others " , Lester is trying to " regain a voice in a home that [ only respects ] the voices of mother and daughter " . His final turning point comes when Angela and he almost have sex ; after she confesses her virginity , he no longer thinks of her as a sex object , but as a daughter . He holds her close and " wraps her up " . Mendes called it " the most satisfying end to [ Lester 's ] journey there could possibly have been " . With these final scenes , Mendes intended to show Lester at the conclusion of a " mythical quest " . After Lester gets a beer from the refrigerator , the camera pushes toward him , then stops facing a hallway down which he walks " to meet his fate " . Having begun to act his age again , Lester achieves closure . As he smiles at a family photo , the camera pans slowly from Lester to the kitchen wall , onto which blood <unk> as a gunshot rings out ; the slow pan reflects the peace of Lester 's death . His body is discovered by Jane and Ricky . Mendes said that Ricky 's staring into Lester 's dead eyes is " the culmination of the theme " of the film : that beauty is found where it is least expected .
