 The following night on Raw , Undertaker explained that he had attacked Lesnar not for ending his WrestleMania streak , but rather for Lesnar allowing Heyman to constantly taunt Undertaker about it ; this led to the two brawling throughout the arena and a WrestleMania rematch being scheduled for SummerSlam on August 23 , where Undertaker would controversially defeat Lesnar ; during the match , Undertaker tapped out to a Kimura lock by Lesnar and the timekeeper rang the bell , but the referee did not see the <unk> and demanded that the match continue , which saw Undertaker then hitting Lesnar with a low blow and Lesnar passed out to Undertaker 's submission hold , Hell 's Gate . The following night on Raw , Lesnar and Heyman challenged Undertaker to an immediate rematch , only to be confronted by Bo Dallas , who mocked Lesnar about his defeat ; Lesnar then responded by delivering 3 German suplexes and an F @-@ 5 to Dallas .
 During Night of Champions , it was announced that Lesnar would face The Undertaker at the Hell in a Cell pay @-@ per @-@ view , where Lesnar defeated The Undertaker after a low blow and F @-@ 5 onto the exposed ring floor , ending their feud . The match was later voted " Match of the Year " during the 2015 Slammy Awards . On the January 11 episode of Raw , Lesnar returned , attacking The New Day , The League of Nations ( Sheamus , King Barrett , Rusev , and Alberto Del Rio ) , and Kevin Owens , before giving an F @-@ 5 to Roman Reigns . The following week on Raw , Lesnar would brawl with Reigns until they were both attacked by The Wyatt Family . At the Royal Rumble , Lesnar was the 23rd entrant , eliminating four competitors before being eliminated by Bray Wyatt with help from the rest of The Wyatt Family .
 On the January 25 episode of Raw , Stephanie McMahon announced that the main event of Fastlane would be a triple threat match between Lesnar , Roman Reigns , and Dean Ambrose to determine who would face Triple H for the WWE World Heavyweight Championship at WrestleMania 32 . In the following weeks , Lesnar would be continuously provoked by Ambrose , with Reigns saving him from the subsequent attacks by Lesnar . At Fastlane , Lesnar dominated most of the match before he was put through two announce tables by Ambrose and Reigns ; he would ultimately lose the match after Reigns pinned Ambrose . Because of this , Lesnar attacked Ambrose in the parking lot as he was arriving at the arena for Raw , but Ambrose would return later in the night , having hijacked an ambulance , and he challenged Lesnar to a No Holds Barred Street Fight match at WrestleMania 32 , where Lesnar defeated Ambrose . On the July 7 edition of SmackDown , it was announced that Lesnar would be facing the returning Randy Orton at SummerSlam . On July 19 , at the 2016 WWE Draft , Lesnar was drafted to Raw .
