 Iron @-@ built ships used wood as part of their protection scheme . HMS Warrior was protected by 4 @.@ 5 in ( 114 mm ) of wrought iron backed by 15 in ( 381 mm ) of teak , the strongest shipbuilding wood . The wood played two roles , preventing spalling and also preventing the shock of a hit damaging the structure of the ship . Later , wood and iron were combined in ' sandwich ' armor , for instance in HMS Inflexible .
 Steel was also an obvious material for armor . It was tested in the 1860s , but the steel of the time was too brittle and disintegrated when struck by shells . Steel became practical to use when a way was found to fuse steel onto wrought iron plates , giving a form of compound armor . This compound armor was used by the British in ships built from the late 1870s , first for turret armor ( starting with HMS Inflexible ) and then for all armor ( starting with HMS Colossus of 1882 ) . The French and German navies adopted the innovation almost immediately , with licenses being given for the use of the ' Wilson System ' of producing fused armor .
 The first ironclads to have all @-@ steel armor were the Italian Caio Duilio and Enrico Dandolo . Though the ships were laid down in 1873 their armor was not purchased from France until 1877 . The French navy decided in 1880 to adopt compound armor for its fleet , but found it limited in supply , so from 1884 the French navy was using steel armor . Britain stuck to compound armor until 1889 .
 The ultimate ironclad armor was case hardened nickel @-@ steel . In 1890 , the U.S. Navy tested steel armor hardened by the Harvey process and found it superior to compound armor . For several years ' Harvey steel ' was the state of the art , produced in the U.S. , France , Germany , Britain , Austria and Italy . In 1894 , the German firm Krupp developed gas cementing , which further hardened steel armor . The German Kaiser Friedrich III , laid down in 1895 , was the first ship to benefit from the new ' Krupp armor ' and the new armor was quickly adopted ; the Royal Navy using it from HMS Canopus , laid down in 1896 . By 1901 almost all new battleships used Krupp armor , though the U.S. continued to use Harvey armor alongside until the end of the decade .
 The equivalent strengths of the different armor plates was as follows : 15 in ( 381 mm ) of wrought iron was equivalent to 12 in ( 305 mm ) of either plain steel or compound iron and steel armor , and to 7 @.@ 75 in ( 197 mm ) of Harvey armor or 5 @.@ 75 in ( 146 mm ) of Krupp armor .
 Ironclad construction also prefigured the later debate in battleship design between tapering and ' all @-@ or @-@ nothing ' armour design . Warrior was only semi @-@ armoured , and could have been disabled by hits on the bow and stern . As the thickness of armor grew to protect ships from the increasingly heavy guns , the area of the ship which could be fully protected diminished . Inflexible 's armor protection was largely limited to the central citadel amidships , protecting boilers and engines , turrets and magazines , and little else . An ingenious arrangement of cork @-@ filled compartments and watertight bulkheads was intended to keep her stable and afloat in the event of heavy damage to her un @-@ armored sections .
