 North of the US 9th Infantry and the battles in the Naktong Bulge and around Yongsan , the US 23d Infantry Regiment after daylight of September 1 was in a very precarious position . Its 1st Battalion had been driven from the river positions and isolated 3 miles ( 4 @.@ 8 km ) westward . Approximately 400 North Koreans now overran the regimental command post , compelling Freeman to withdraw it about 600 yards ( 550 m ) . There , 5 miles ( 8 @.@ 0 km ) northwest of Changnyong , the US 23rd Infantry Headquarters and Headquarters Company , miscellaneous regimental units , and regimental staff officers checked the North Koreans in a 3 @-@ hour fight .
 The North Koreans advanced to Changnyong itself during the afternoon of September 2 , and ROK National Police withdrew from the town . North Koreans were in Changnyong that evening . With his communications broken southward to the 2nd Infantry Division headquarters and the 9th Infantry , Haynes during the day decided to send a tank patrol down the Yongsan road in an effort to re @-@ establish communication . C Company , 72nd Tank Battalion , led its tanks southward . They had to fight their way down the road through several roadblocks . Of the three tanks that started , only the lead tank got through to Yongsan . There , it delivered an overlay of Task Force Haynes ' positions to Bradley .
 Still farther northward in the zone of the US 38th Infantry the North Koreans were also active . After the North Korean breakthrough during the night of August 31 , Keiser had ordered the 2nd Battalion , 38th Infantry , to move south and help the 23rd Infantry establish a defensive position west of Changnyong . In attempting to do this , the battalion found North Korean troops already on the ridges along the road . They had penetrated to Hill 284 overlooking the 38th Infantry command post . This hill and Hill 209 dominated the rear areas of the regiment . At 06 : 00 September 3 , 300 North Koreans launched an attack from Hill 284 against the 38th Regiment command post . The regimental commander organized a defensive perimeter and requested a bombing strike which was denied him because the enemy target and his defense perimeter were too close to each other . But the Air Force did deliver rocket and strafing strikes .
 This fight continued until September 5 . On that day F Company captured Hill 284 killing 150 North Koreans . From the crest he and his men watched as many more North Koreans ran into a village below them . Directed artillery fire destroyed the village . Among the abandoned North Korean materiel on the hill , Schauer 's men found twenty @-@ five American BARs and submachine guns , a large American radio , thirty boxes of unopened American fragmentation and concussion grenades , and some American rations .
