 In 1997 , Alan Ball resolved to move into the film industry after several frustrating years writing for the television sitcoms Grace Under Fire and Cybill . He joined the United Talent Agency , where his representative , Andrew <unk> , suggested he write a spec script to " reintroduce [ himself ] to the town as a screenwriter " . Ball pitched three ideas to <unk> : two conventional romantic comedies and American Beauty , which he had originally conceived as a play in the early 1990s . Despite the story 's lack of an easily marketable concept , <unk> selected American Beauty because he felt it was the one for which Ball had the most passion . While developing the script , Ball created another television sitcom , Oh , Grow Up . He channeled his anger and frustration at having to accede to network demands on that show — and during his tenures on Grace Under Fire and Cybill — into writing American Beauty .
 Ball did not expect to sell the script , believing it would act as more of a calling card , but American Beauty drew interest from several production bodies . <unk> passed the script to several producers , including Dan Jinks and Bruce Cohen , who took it to DreamWorks . With the help of executives Glenn Williamson and Bob Cooper , and Steven Spielberg in his capacity as studio partner , Ball was convinced to develop the project at DreamWorks ; he received assurances from the studio — known at the time for its more conventional fare — that it would not " iron the [ edges ] out " . In an unusual move , DreamWorks decided not to option the script ; instead , in April 1998 , the studio bought it outright for $ 250 @,@ 000 , outbidding Fox Searchlight Pictures , October Films , Metro @-@ Goldwyn @-@ Mayer , and Lakeshore Entertainment . DreamWorks planned to make the film for $ 6 – 8 million .
 Jinks and Cohen involved Ball throughout the film 's development , including casting and director selection . The producers met with about 20 interested directors , several of whom were considered " A @-@ list " at the time . Ball was not keen on the more well @-@ known directors because he believed their involvement would increase the budget and lead DreamWorks to become " nervous about the content " . Nevertheless , the studio offered the film to Mike Nichols and Robert Zemeckis ; neither accepted . In the same year , Mendes ( then a theater director ) revived the musical Cabaret in New York with fellow director Rob Marshall . Beth Swofford of the Creative Artists Agency arranged meetings for Mendes with studio figures in Los Angeles to see if film direction was a possibility . Mendes came across American Beauty in a pile of eight scripts at Swofford 's house , and knew immediately that it was the one he wanted to make ; early in his career , he had been inspired by how the film Paris , Texas ( 1984 ) presented contemporary America as a mythic landscape and he saw the same theme in American Beauty , as well as parallels with his own childhood . Mendes later met with Spielberg ; impressed by Mendes ' productions of Oliver ! and Cabaret , Spielberg encouraged him to consider American Beauty .
 Mendes found that he still had to convince DreamWorks ' production executives to let him direct . He had already discussed the film with Jinks and Cohen , and felt they supported him . Ball was also keen ; having seen Cabaret , he was impressed with Mendes ' " keen visual sense " and thought he did not make obvious choices . Ball felt that Mendes liked to look under the story 's surface , a talent he felt would be a good fit with the themes of American Beauty . Mendes ' background also reassured him , because of the prominent role the playwright usually has in a theater production . Over two meetings — the first with Cooper , Walter Parkes , and Laurie MacDonald , the second with Cooper alone — Mendes pitched himself to the studio . The studio soon approached Mendes with a deal to direct for the minimum salary allowed under Directors Guild of America rules — $ 150 @,@ 000 . Mendes accepted , and later recalled that after taxes and his agent 's commission , he only earned $ 38 @,@ 000 . In June 1998 , DreamWorks confirmed that it had contracted Mendes to direct the film .
