 Soon after his return to the United States , Gore reentered state politics , winning election to the Massachusetts Senate . He was active in the state Federalist Party organization , sitting on its secret central committee . He resumed his law practice , in which he took on as a student Daniel Webster . One of the highest profile cases he took on was the 1807 defense of Thomas Selfridge , accused of murdering Charles Austin . Selfridge , an older Federalist attorney , had been retained to assist in the collection of a debt from Austin 's Republican father . In the politically charged atmosphere of the day in Boston , Selfridge , fearing for his own safety , had armed himself with a dueling pistol . The younger Austin had , apparently on his own initiative , sought to beat Selfridge with a cane , and Selfridge fatally shot him in the encounter . Selfridge was prosecuted by Attorney General ( and future Gore gubernatorial opponent ) James Sullivan , and the defense also included arch @-@ Federalist Harrison Gray Otis . Gore argued Selfridge acted in self @-@ defense ; Selfridge was acquitted of murder by a jury whose foreman was Patriot and Federalist Paul Revere after fifteen minutes ' deliberation .
 Gore also resumed business activities upon his return . He invested in a wide variety of businesses and infrastructure , spurring economic activity in the state . His investments ranged widely , including maritime insurance ( where is father @-@ in @-@ law had made his fortune ) , bridges , locks , canals , and textiles . He was a major investor in the Middlesex Canal , the Craigie Bridge ( the first to connect Boston to Cambridge ) , and the Boston Manufacturing Company , whose factory proving the single @-@ site production of textiles was in Waltham near his estate . Not all of his ventures panned out : the canal was in the long run a financial failure , as were efforts with other collaborators to develop Lechmere Point , the Cambridge side of the Craigie Bridge . The textile mill , however , was a success , and Gore invested in the Merrimack Manufacturing Company . When it decided to locate in what is now Lowell , Massachusetts , Gore purchased shares in the Proprietors of Locks and Canals , which operated ( and still owns today ) the Lowell canals .
 In 1806 Gore won election to the State Senate . That year the Republicans were in the majority , and the election for governor was close enough to require a recount . The legislature scrutinized the ballots in a partisan manner ( for example , retaining ballots containing misspelled versions of Republican James Sullivan 's name and discarding similar ballots marked for Federalist Caleb Strong ) . Gore and other Federalists raised a public outcry , and the legislature relented , eventually certifying Strong as the winner .
 Gore ran unsuccessfully for Governor of Massachusetts in 1807 and 1808 against a rising tide of Republicanism in the state , losing both times to moderate Republican James Sullivan . The Federalists gained control of the state legislature in 1808 in a backlash against Republican economic policies , but Gore was criticized for his failure to aggressively support state protests against the Embargo Act of 1807 , which had a major negative effect on the state 's large merchant fleet . Gore was in 1808 elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives , where he successfully led Federalist efforts to ensure the selection of a Federalist slate of presidential electors . He also spearheaded actions to drive Senator John Quincy Adams from the Federalist Party over his support of Thomas Jefferson 's foreign policy . The legislature elected Adams ' successor nine months early , and gave Adams sufficiently distasteful instructions that he resigned the post and joined with the Republicans .
