 The War Office and the Army were concluding , at this point , that light tanks were a liability and too vulnerable for use in further combat , and the Tetrarch was considered to be obsolete . This decision may have marked the end for the Tetrarch in active service ; several of the tanks destined to be deployed to the Eighth Army in the Middle East for the North African Campaign were left in Britain when their cooling systems were determined to be unable to cope with the intense North African heat .
 The demise of Tetrarch was prevented by a decision made by the War Office in mid @-@ 1941 , as it was considering the equipment to be used by Britain 's fledgling airborne forces , formed in June 1940 under the orders of the Prime Minister , Winston Churchill . When selecting the equipment for the airborne forces , officials at the War Office concluded that gliders would be an integral component ; gliders would transport troops and heavy equipment , which , by 1941 , was to include artillery and some form of tank . Plans to transport a tank went through a number of revisions , but , by May 1941 , the feasibility of a 5 @.@ 5 metric tons ( 5 @.@ 4 long tons ) tank to be carried for 350 miles ( 560 km ) in a glider was accepted , although the aircraft would have to be specifically designed for the task . In a conference held on 16 January 1941 , it was decided that the General Aircraft Hamilcar , currently under development , would be used to transport a single Tetrarch tank or two Universal Carriers . The Tetrarch was chosen because it was an obsolete design , and was therefore available to be used by the airborne forces .
 Beginning in January 1944 , training exercises were conducted carrying the Tetrarchs and their crews inside Hamilcar gliders . These exercises were successful ; during the training by ' C ' Squadron of the Glider Pilot Regiment , which specialised in flying the Hamilcars , over 2 @,@ 800 lifts were made with an average of 50 lifts per crew . Only three incidents resulted in fatalities or injuries , with seven pilots killed during the training . When the Tetrarch was re @-@ designated as an airborne tank , several changes were made to its design . A number of tanks had their 2 pounder guns replaced with a 76 @.@ 2 @-@ millimetre ( 3 @.@ 00 in ) infantry support howitzer ; these tanks were then designated as Tetrarch 1 CS ( Close Support ) . Additionally , Littlejohn adaptors were added to those Tetrarchs which still possessed their 2 pounders to increase their muzzle velocity and armour penetration .
 The Tetrarch experienced several setbacks throughout its development and deployment with the Army and airborne forces . One of the major problems was the limited number of these tanks that existed after production ended in 1942 , which particularly affected the airborne forces . The transport of 20 of the tanks to the USSR under the Lend @-@ Lease Act depleted the number available for use by airborne forces , as did the loss of several more during Operation Ironclad , the invasion of Madagascar . A Royal Armoured Corps report issued in December 1942 stated that approximately 50 Tetrarchs were available for use . In a memorandum , dated January 1943 , by Major General George F. Hopkinson , commander of the 1st Airborne Division , Hopkinson complained that he had been informed that 70 of the tanks were available , whereas only 50 actually remained , with no reserves to replace those lost in combat . This lack of sufficient replacement reserves , combined with a War Office report that some 287 airborne tanks would be required for the 1st Airborne Division and an unnamed airborne division to be formed in India , led to the Tetrarch 's eventual replacement by the US M22 Locust .
