 Two CH @-@ 53E Super Stallions carrying a 60 @-@ man security detail — 51 Marines and nine Navy SEALs — departed Guam at 02 : 47 , 466 nautical miles ( 863 km ; 536 mi ) from the embassy , and were expected to arrive at 06 : 20 . They performed two aerial refuelings . During the first refueling , a pipe burst on one of the helicopters , dousing soldiers in fuel and nearly forcing a return to the Guam ; problems with the helicopters ' navigation system also complicated the refueling rendezvous . The helicopters arrived in Mogadishu at dawn , crossing the coast just south of the harbor at 25 – 50 feet ( 7 @.@ 6 – 15 @.@ 2 m ) in altitude on a route that was planned to avoid areas of more intense violence reported in the northern parts of the city . On their arrival in Mogadishu , the crew of the helicopters were using an outdated 1969 map , which showed the embassy in an isolated area . Furthermore , they had been told the embassy could be discerned by its white stucco perimeter wall and golf course . The embassy was , in fact , surrounded by new development and the crew saw white stucco walls around many buildings in the city . The helicopters were flying too low to spot a strobe light which was placed on the embassy 's water tower ( the highest point within the embassy compound ) and the golf course in the embassy compound had a black , oil @-@ coated surface — not the familiar green grass that the helicopter crew would <unk> breaking radio silence ( their only direct communication with the embassy was unencrypted ) to contact the embassy , they were able to discern it and land at 07 : 10 . As they arrived , a group of about 100 to 150 Somalis were attempting to enter the embassy compound via ladders on the wall , but scattered as the helicopters arrived .
 The security detail moved to establish a perimeter around the embassy compound and the Air Force 's AC @-@ 130 arrived to provide overhead support . Ambassador Bishop gave the security detail clear instructions on the rules of engagement : they could only use deadly force if people came over the embassy compound 's walls with obvious hostile intent . He also identified three zones of defense , stating a preference to retreat to the third zone before the use of deadly force :
 the entire embassy compound
 the Chancery , Joint Administrative Office ( <unk> ) building , Marine House , and the helicopter landing zone ( <unk> )
 the chancery and <unk> buildings ( the two " <unk> " buildings where the evacuees were held )
 Ambassador Bishop clearly explained his rationale to the security detail , which was to avoid any impression that they were intervening in the violence in Mogadishu . He feared that the embassy would be targeted by organized attacks if any group involved in the clashes got the impression that the US was intervening in the conflict . To this effect , he requested the Voice of America and BBC broadcast announcements that the forces were present only to evacuate the embassy and would not interfere in the conflict . The Marines who had been doused in fuel during the refueling were able to take a shower and wash their clothes .
 After an hour on the ground , the helicopters left with the first 61 evacuees , including all American civilians and four heads of mission . Evacuees were provided blankets on one of the flights to remain warm . Complications with the only in @-@ flight refueling on the return nearly prevented refueling , which would have forced the helicopters to divert to the Somali desert and await a rescue . At 9 : 40 , the helicopters arrived on Guam and unloaded the evacuees .
