 On April 3 , Brad Stevens and the Butler Bulldogs faced off with Michigan State in the national semi @-@ finals . Michigan State took an early 14 – 7 lead , and Matt Howard got in early foul trouble , sitting most the first half . Stevens kept the team focused with a " next man up " attitude and the game was tied at 28 at halftime . The second half was dominated by tight defense for both sides . With 2 : 45 to go in the game , the score was 47 – 44 Butler . Michigan State called a time out to set up a play . Stevens correctly anticipated the play call and had Ronald Nored , the team 's best defender , switch onto <unk> Lucious off a screen . Nored stole the ball and Shawn <unk> got fouled on the resulting run out , hitting 1 of 2 . Trailing 50 – 49 with under 30 seconds remaining , Michigan State came up empty and was forced to foul . Nored hit both foul shots , giving Butler a 52 – 49 lead . After a Michigan State time out , Stevens had his team foul Lucious with 2 seconds remaining to prevent a potentially game tying 3 @-@ pointer . After making the first , Lucious intentionally missed the second free throw . Hayward came down with the rebound to seal the victory . Butler became the first team since the shot clock was adopted for the 1985 – 86 season to hold five straight tournament opponents under 60 points .
 On April 5 , 2010 , Butler and Duke faced off in what The New York Times called " the most eagerly awaited championship game in years " . Late in the first half , Duke went on an 8 – 0 run to take a 26 – 20 lead . Stevens called a timeout . With starters Matt Howard and Ronald Nored on the bench in foul trouble , Stevens was forced to call on backup center Avery Jukes who came up big for Butler . Jukes scored 10 first half points , tying his season high . At half time , Duke 's lead stood at 33 – 32 .
 The second half was played very closely , with neither team taking a substantial lead . With 3 : 16 to play , Duke took a 60 – 55 lead on two made free throws by Nolan Smith . Butler cut the lead to one point in the final minute and , after a missed Kyle Singler jump shot with 36 seconds remaining , got a chance to retake the lead . Butler was unable to initiate their offense and Stevens called a timeout to set up a play . A failed inbounds attempt and a timeout later , Hayward missed a baseline fade @-@ away jumper and Brian <unk> came down with the rebound for Duke . He was quickly fouled with less than 4 seconds remaining . Hayward narrowly missed a desperation half @-@ court shot court as time expired , making the final margin 61 – 59 .
 The loss snapped Butler 's 25 @-@ game winning streak , the longest in school history . Butler became the smallest school to play for a National Championship since Jacksonville in 1970 . Stevens became the second @-@ youngest head coach to coach in the NCAA National Championship Game , behind Branch McCracken who led the Indiana Hoosiers to the 1940 National Championship at age 31 . Stevens was named as both a Hugh Durham and Jim Phelan Award finalist for the third consecutive year , losing to Mike Young and Jamie Dixon respectively . He was also a finalist for the Skip Prosser Man of the Year Award , which was won by Bob Marlin .
 Butler finished the year ranked # 2 in the Coaches ' Poll , the highest ranking in school history . The school was ranked for 19 consecutive weeks , tying the school record .
